@node Example usage
@section Example usage

Let's assume that there is some insecure link between your computer and
WiFi-reachable gateway.

@itemize @bullet
@item You have got @code{wlan0} NIC with 192.168.0/24 network on it.
@item You want to create virtual encrypted and authenticated 172.16.0/24
network and use it as a default transport.
@item @code{wlan0} MTU is 1500, 20 bytes overhead per IPv4. So MTU for
GoVPN is 1500 - 20 - 8 = 1472.
@item During startup client and server will say that TAP interface MTU
is 1432.
@end itemize

Do not forget about setting @code{GOMAXPROC} environment variable for
using more than one CPU.

As a preparation you have to generate peer directory (register new
client) on the server side using @code{utils/newsclient.sh}, generate
@ref{Verifier} on client side and place it on the server. Assume that
you made those steps.

GNU/Linux IPv4 client-server example:

@example
server% echo "echo tap10" >> peers/CLIENTID/up.sh
server% ip addr add 192.168.0.1/24 dev wlan0
server% tunctl -t tap10
server% ip link set mtu 1432 dev tap10
server% ip addr add 172.16.0.1/24 dev tap10
server% ip link set up dev tap10
server% GOMAXPROC=4 govpn-server -bind 192.168.0.1:1194 -mtu 1472
@end example

@example
client% umask 066
client% utils/storekey.sh key.txt
client% ip addr add 192.168.0.2/24 dev wlan0
client% tunctl -t tap10
client% ip link set mtu 1432 dev tap10
client% ip addr add 172.16.0.2/24 dev tap10
client% ip link set up dev tap10
client% ip route add default via 172.16.0.1
client% export GOMAXPROC=4
client% while :; do
    govpn-client -key key.txt -id CLIENTID -iface tap10 \
        -remote 192.168.0.1:1194 -mtu 1472
done
@end example

FreeBSD IPv6 client-server example:

@example
server% ifconfig em0 inet6 fe80::1/64
server% GOMAXPROC=4 govpn-server -bind "fe80::1%em0"
@end example

@example
client% ifconfig me0 inet6 -ifdisabled auto_linklocal
client% ifconfig tap10
client% ifconfig tap10 inet6 fc00::2/96 mtu 1412 up
client% route -6 add default fc00::1
client% export GOMAXPROC=4
client% while :; do
    govpn-client -key key.txt -id CLIENTID -iface tap10 \
        -remote [fe80::1%me0]:1194
done
@end example
