@node Installation
@unnumbered Installation

GoVPN is written on @url{http://golang.org/, Go programming language},
@url{https://www.gnu.org/software/make/, GNU Make} is recommended for
convenient building. @url{https://www.gnu.org/software/texinfo/, Texinfo}
is used for building documentation.

Required libraries, dependencies (they are installed automatically when
using @emph{Make}):

@multitable @columnfractions .40 .20 .40
@headitem Library @tab Platform @tab Licence
@item @code{golang.org/x/crypto/poly1305} @tab All @tab BSD 3-Clause
@item @code{golang.org/x/crypto/salsa20} @tab All @tab BSD 3-Clause
@item @code{golang.org/x/crypto/xtea} @tab All @tab BSD 3-Clause
@item @code{golang.org/x/crypto/pbkdf2} @tab All @tab BSD 3-Clause
@item @code{github.com/agl/ed25519} @tab All @tab BSD 3-Clause
@item @code{github.com/bigeagle/water} @tab GNU/Linux @tab BSD 3-Clause
@end multitable

@include download.texi

You @strong{have to} verify downloaded archives integrity and check
their signature to be sure that you have got trusted, untampered
software. For integrity and authentication of downloaded binaries
@url{https://www.gnupg.org/, The GNU Privacy Guard} is used. You must
download signature provided with the tarball.

For the very first time you have to import signing public keys. They
are provided below, but be sure that you are reading them from the
trusted source. Alternatively check this page from
@ref{Contacts, other sources} and look for the mailing list announcements.

For example you can get tarball, set proper @code{$GOPATH} and run
@code{make} (that will install all necessary libraries and build
@emph{govpn-client}, @emph{govpn-server}, @emph{govpn-verifier} binaries:

@example
% mkdir -p govpn/src
% set -e
% wget http://www.cypherpunks.ru/govpn/download/govpn-2.3.tar.xz
% wget http://www.cypherpunks.ru/govpn/download/govpn-2.3.tar.xz.sig
% gpg --verify govpn-2.3.tar.xz.sig govpn-2.3.tar.xz
% tar xfC govpn-2.3.tar.xz govpn/src
% mv govpn/src/govpn-2.3 govpn/src/govpn
% export GOPATH=$(pwd)/govpn:$GOPATH
% gmake -C govpn/src/govpn all
@end example

@include pubkey.texi
