@node News
@unnumbered News

@table @strong

@item Release 4.0
@itemize
@item Handshake messages can be noised: their messages lengths are
hidden. Now they are indistinguishable from transport messages.
@item Parallelized clients processing on the server side.
@item Much higher overall performance.
@item Single JSON file server configuration.
@end itemize

@item Release 3.5
@itemize
@item Ability to use @ref{Network, TCP} network transport.
Server can listen on both UDP and TCP sockets.
@item Ability to use @ref{Proxy, HTTP proxies} (through CONNECT method)
for accessing the server. Server can also emulate HTTP proxy behaviour.
@item Updated Poly1305 library with ARM-related bugfixes.
@item Go 1.5+ version is highly recommended because of performance
reasons.
@end itemize

@item Release 3.4
@itemize
@item Ability to use external @ref{EGD}-compatible PRNGs. Now you are
able to use GoVPN even on systems with the bad @code{/dev/random},
providing higher quality entropy from external sources.
@item Removed @code{-noncediff} option. It is replaced with in-memory
storage of seen nonces, thus eliminating possible replay attacks at all
without performance degradation related to inbound packets reordering.
@end itemize

@item Release 3.3
@itemize
@item Compatibility with an old GNU Make 3.x. Previously only BSD Make
and GNU Make 4.x were supported.
@item /dev/urandom is used for correct client identity generation under
GNU/Linux systems. Previously /dev/random can produce less than required
128-bits of random.
@item Updated user manual examples.
@end itemize

@item Release 3.2
@itemize
@item
Deterministic building: dependent libraries source code commits are
fixed in our makefiles.
@item
No Internet connection is needed for building the source code: all
required libraries are included in release tarballs.
@item
FreeBSD Make compatibility. GNU Make is not necessary anymore.
@end itemize

@item Release 3.1
@itemize
@item
Diffie-Hellman public keys are encoded with Elligator algorithm when
sending over the wire, making them indistinguishable from the random
strings, preventing detection of successful decryption try when guessing
passwords (that are used to create DSA public keys). But this will
consume twice entropy for DH key generation in average.
@end itemize

@item Release 3.0
@itemize
@item
EKE protocol is replaced by Augmented-EKE and static symmetric (both
sides have it) pre-shared key replaced with server-side verifier. This
requires, 64 more bytes in handshake traffic, Ed25519 dependency with
corresponding sign/verify computations, PBKDF2 dependency and its
usage on the client side during handshake.

A-EKE with PBKDF2-based verifiers is resistant to dictionary attacks,
can use human memorable passphrases instead of static keys and
server-side verifiers can not be used for authentication (compromised
server does not leak client's authentication keys/passphrases).

@item
Changed transport message structure: added payload packet's length.
This will increase transport overhead for two bytes, but heartbeat
packets became smaller

@item
Ability to hide underlying packets lengths by appending noise, junk
data during transmission. Each packet can be fill up-ed to its
maximal MTU size.

@item
Ability to hide underlying packets appearance rate, by generating
Constant Packet Rate traffic. This includes noise generation too.
@item
Per-peer @code{-timeout}, @code{-noncediff}, @code{-noise} and
@code{-cpr} configuration options for server.
@end itemize

@item Release 2.4
@itemize
@item
Added ability to optionally run built-in HTTP-server responding with
JSON of all known connected peers information. Real-time client's
statistics.

@item
Documentation is explicitly licenced under GNU FDL 1.3+.
@end itemize

@item Release 2.3
@itemize
@item
Handshake packets became indistinguishable from the random.
Now all GoVPN's traffic is the noise for men in the middle.

@item
Handshake messages are smaller (16% traffic reduce).

@item
Adversary now can not create malicious fake handshake packets that
will force server to generate private DH key, preventing entropy
consuming and resource heavy computations.
@end itemize

@item Release 2.2
@itemize
@item Fixed several possible channel deadlocks.
@end itemize

@item Release 2.1
@itemize
@item Fixed Linux-related building.
@end itemize

@item Release 2.0
@itemize
@item Added clients identification.
@item Simultaneous several clients support by server.
@item Per-client up/down scripts.
@end itemize

@item Release 1.5
@itemize
@item Nonce obfuscation/encryption.
@end itemize

@item Release 1.4
@itemize
@item Performance optimizations.
@end itemize

@item Release 1.3
@itemize
@item Heartbeat feature.
@item Rehandshake feature.
@item up- and down- optinal scripts.
@end itemize

@item Release 1.1
@itemize
@item FreeBSD support.
@end itemize

@item Release 1.0
@itemize
@item Initial stable release.
@end itemize

@end table
