@node Server part
@section Server part

Except for common @code{-mtu}, @code{-stats}, @code{-egd} options server
has the following ones:

@table @code

@item -proto
@ref{Network transport} to use. Can be @emph{udp}, @emph{tcp} or @emph{all}.

@item -bind
Address (@code{host:port} format) we must bind to.

@item -peers
Path to the directory containing peers information, database.

@item -proxy
Start trivial HTTP @ref{Proxy} server on specified @emph{host:port}.

@end table

Peers directory must contain subdirectories with the names of client's
identities in hexadecimal notation. Each subdirectory has the following
files:

@table @code

@item verifier
@strong{Required}. Contains corresponding verifier used to authenticate
the client in hexadecimal notation. See @ref{Verifier} for how
to create it.

@item up.sh
@strong{Required}. up-script executes each time connection with the
client is established. It's @emph{stdout} output must contain TAP
interface name on the first string. This script can be simple
@code{echo tap10}, or maybe more advanced like this:
    @example
    #!/bin/sh
    $tap=$(ifconfig tap create)
    ifconfig $tap inet6 fc00::1/96 mtu 1412 up
    echo $tap
    @end example

@item down.sh
Optional. Same as @code{up.sh} above, but executes when connection is
lost.

@item name
Optional. Contains human readable username. Used to beauty output of
@ref{Stats}.

@item timeout
Optional. Contains @ref{Timeout} setting (decimal notation) in seconds.
Otherwise default minute timeout will be used.

@item noise
Optional. Contains either "1" (enable @ref{Noise} adding), or "0".

@item cpr
Optional. Contains @ref{CPR} setting (decimal notation) in KiB/sec.

@end table

Each minute server refreshes peers directory contents and adds newly
appeared identities, deletes an obsolete ones.

You can use convenient @code{utils/newclient.sh} script for new client
creation:

@example
% ./utils/newclient.sh Alice
Place verifier to peers/9b40701bdaf522f2b291cb039490312/verifier
@end example

@code{9b40701bdaf522f2b291cb039490312} is client's identification.
@code{peers/9b40701bdaf522f2b291cb039490312/name} contains @emph{Alice},
@code{peers/9b40701bdaf522f2b291cb039490312/verifier} contains dummy
verifier and @code{peers/9b40701bdaf522f2b291cb039490312/up.sh} contains
currently dummy empty up-script.
