@node Transport
@section Transport protocol

@verbatim
[PktLen] + ENCn(SERIAL) + ENC(KEY, ENCn(SERIAL), DATA_SIZE+DATA+NOISE) +
    AUTH(ENCn(SERIAL) + ENC(KEY, ENCn(SERIAL), DATA_SIZE+DATA+NOISE))
@end verbatim

All transport and handshake messages are indistinguishable from
pseudo random noise, except when using TCP connections.

@code{PktLen} is used only with TCP connections. It is big-endian
@emph{uint16} length of the whole packet (except @code{PktLen} itself).

@code{SERIAL} is message's serial number. Odds are reserved for
client(->server) messages, evens for server(->client) messages.

@code{ENCn} is XTEA block cipher algorithm used here as PRP (pseudo
random permutation function) to obfuscate @code{SERIAL}. Plaintext
@code{SERIAL} state is kept in peers internal state, but encrypted
before transmission. XTEA is compact and fast enough. Salsa20 is PRF
function and requires much more code to create PRP from it.

XTEA's encryption key is the first 128-bit of Salsa20's output with
established common key and zero nonce (message nonces start from 1).

@code{ENC} is Salsa20 stream cipher, with established session @code{KEY}
and obfuscated @code{SERIAL} used as a nonce. First 256 bits of
Salsa20's output is used as Poly1305 authentication key, next 256 bits
are ignored. All remaining output is XORed with the data, encrypting it.

@code{DATA_SIZE} is big-endian @emph{uint16} storing length of the
@code{DATA}.

@code{NOISE} is optional. It is just some junk data, intended to fill up
packet to MTU size. This is useful for concealing payload packets length.

@code{AUTH} is Poly1305 authentication function. First 256 bits of
Salsa20 output are used as a one-time key for @code{AUTH}.

To prevent replay attacks we must remember received @code{SERIAL}s and
if meet one, then drop it. Basically we could just store latest number
and check if received one is greater, but because of UDP packets
reordering this can lead to valid packets dropping and overall
performance degradation. We store up to 256 seen nonces in hash
structure, in two swapping buckets.
